[[cse]][#top]##

[width="100%",cols="<50%,>50%",]
|===
|*EclipseLink Solutions Guide for EclipseLink* +
Release 4.0 a|
[width="99%",cols="20%,^16%,16%,^16%,16%,^16%",]
|===
|  |image:../../dcommon/images/contents.png[Go To Table Of
Contents,width=16,height=16] + | 
|link:../../[image:../../dcommon/images/search.png[Search] +
[.mini]##] | 
|link:../eclipselink_otlcg.pdf[image:../../dcommon/images/pdf_icon.png[PDF]]
|===

|===

'''''

[cols="^,^,",]
|===
|link:qcn.htm[image:../../dcommon/images/larrow.png[Previous,width=16,height=16]]
|link:qcn002.htm[image:../../dcommon/images/rarrow.png[Next,width=16,height=16]]
| 
|===

[#A1099038]####[#TLADG1004]####

== Introduction to the Solution

EclipseLink provides a shared (L2) object cache that can reduce database
access for objects and their relationships. This cache is enabled by
default which is normally not a problem, unless the contents of the
database are modified directly by other applications, or by the same
application on other servers in a clustered environment. This may result
in stale data in the cache.

If the contents of the database are modified, then a mechanism is needed
to ensure that the contents of the cache are synchronized with the
database. That mechanism is provided by EclipseLink Database Change
Notification. DCN allows shared caching to be used in the JPA
environment.

 +

[width="100%",cols="<100%",]
|===
a|
image:../../dcommon/images/note_icon.png[Note,width=16,height=16]Note:

Database Change Notification extends the functionality provided by the
Oracle Database Continuous Query Notification feature. For more
information, see "Continuous Query Notification" in _Oracle Database
JDBC Developer's Guide_.

|===

 +

EclipseLink Database Change Notification extends the functionality
provided by the Oracle Database Continuous Query Notification. One of
the features of Continuous Query Notification is that it allows database
events to be raised when rows in a table are modified.

To detect modifications, EclipseLink DCN uses the `ROWID` to inform of
row level changes in the primary table. EclipseLink includes the `ROWID`
in all queries for a DCN-enabled class. EclipseLink also selects the
object's `ROWID` after an insert operation. EclipseLink maintains a
cache index on the `ROWID`, in addition to the object's `Id`.
EclipseLink also selects the database transaction ID once for each
transaction to avoid invalidating the cache on the server that is
processing the transaction.

EclipseLink DCN is enabled through the
`OracleChangeNotificationListener`
(`org.eclipse.persistence.platform.database.oracle.dcn.OracleChangeNotificationListener`)
listener class. This listener integrates with Oracle JDBC to receive
database change events. To enable the listener, specify the full path to
the `OracleChangeNotificationListener` class as the value of the
`eclipselink.cache.database-event-listener` property in the
`persistence.xml` file.

By default, all entities in the domain are registered for change
notification. However, you can selectively disable change notification
for certain classes by tagging them in the Java files with the
`databaseChangeNotificationType`
(`org.eclipse.persistence.annotations.DatabaseChangeNotificationType`)
attribute of the `Cache` annotation. The value of this attribute
determines the type of database change notification an entity should
use. The default value of the `databaseChangeNotificationType` attribute
is `Invalidate`. To disable change notification for a class, set the
value of the attribute to `None`.

The `databaseChangeNotificationType` attribute is relevant only if the
persistence unit has been configured with a database event listener,
such as the `OracleChangeNotificationListener` class, that receives
database change events. This allows the EclipseLink cache to be
invalidated or updated from database changes.

Oracle strongly suggests that you use optimistic locking (writes on
stale data will fail and automatically invalidate the cache) in your
transactions. If you include an `@Version` annotation in your entity,
then the version column in the primary table will always be updated, and
the object will always be invalidated.

'''''

[width="66%",cols="50%,^,>50%",]
|===
a|
[width="96%",cols=",^50%,^50%",]
|===
| 
|link:qcn.htm[image:../../dcommon/images/larrow.png[Previous,width=16,height=16]]
|link:qcn002.htm[image:../../dcommon/images/rarrow.png[Next,width=16,height=16]]
|===

|http://www.eclipse.org/eclipselink/[image:../../dcommon/images/ellogo.png[EclipseLink,width=150]] +
Copyright © 2014, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
link:../../dcommon/html/cpyr.htm[ +
] a|
[width="99%",cols="20%,^16%,16%,^16%,16%,^16%",]
|===
|  |image:../../dcommon/images/contents.png[Go To Table Of
Contents,width=16,height=16] + | 
|link:../../[image:../../dcommon/images/search.png[Search] +
[.mini]##] | 
|link:../eclipselink_otlcg.pdf[image:../../dcommon/images/pdf_icon.png[PDF]]
|===

|===

[[copyright]]
Copyright © 2014 by The Eclipse Foundation under the
http://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/epl-v10.php[Eclipse Public License
(EPL)] +
